Pedigrí académico de Bitcoin
El concepto de criptomonedas se basa en ideas olvidadas en la literatura de investigación.
Arvind Narayanan y Jeremy Clark

Tradución Alex Martin como ejercicio del curso http://bitcoinbook.cs.princeton.edu/  

Si ha leído acerca de bitcoin en la prensa y está familiarizado con la investigación académica en el campo de la criptografía, 
es probable que tenga la siguiente impresión: varias décadas de investigación en efectivo digital, comenzando con David Chaum, 
10, 12 no condujo al éxito comercial porque requería un servidor centralizado y bancario que controlara el sistema,
y ningún banco quería registrarse. A lo largo vino bitcoin, una propuesta radicalmente diferente para una criptomoneda descentralizada
que no necesitaba los bancos, y el efectivo digital finalmente tuvo éxito. Su inventor, el misterioso Satoshi Nakamoto, 
era un extraño académico, y bitcoin no se parece en nada a las propuestas académicas anteriores.
Este artículo desafía esa visión al mostrar que casi todos los componentes técnicos de bitcoin se originaron en la literatura académica 
de los años ochenta y noventa (ver figura 1). Esto no es para disminuir el logro de Nakamoto, sino para señalar que se parió sobre 
los hombros de los gigantes. De hecho, al rastrear los orígenes de las ideas en bitcoin, podemos centrarnos en el verdadero 

salto de visión de Nakamoto: la forma específica y compleja en que se combinan los componentes subyacentes.
Esto ayuda a explicar por qué el bitcoin tardó tanto en ser inventado. Los lectores que ya están familiarizados con la forma en que
funciona Bitcoin pueden obtener una comprensión más profunda de esta presentación histórica. (Para una introducción, vea Bitcoin y 
Cryptocurrency Technologies por Arvind Narayanan et al.36) La historia intelectual de Bitcoin también sirve como un estudio de caso 
que demuestra las relaciones entre el mundo académico, investigadores externos y profesionales, y ofrece lecciones sobre cómo estos 
grupos pueden beneficiarse uno del uno otro.
El libro mayor
Si tiene un libro mayor seguro, el proceso para aprovecharlo en un sistema de pago digital es sencillo. Por ejemplo, 
si Alice envía Bob $ 100 por PayPal, PayPal carga $ 100 de la cuenta de Alice y acredita $ 100 a la cuenta de Bob. 
Esto también es más o menos lo que sucede en la banca tradicional, aunque la ausencia de un libro único compartido entre bancos complica
las cosas.
Esta idea de un libro mayor es el punto de partida para entender Bitcoin. Es un lugar para registrar todas las transacciones que suceden 
en el sistema, y ​​todos los participantes del sistema están abiertos y son de confianza. Bitcoin convierte este sistema para registrar 
pagos en una moneda. Mientras que en la banca, un saldo de cuenta representa el efectivo que puede exigirse al banco, ¿qué representa una 
unidad de bitcoin? Por ahora, suponga que lo que se tramita tiene un valor inherente.
¿Cómo se puede construir un libro de contabilidad para su uso en un entorno como Internet donde los participantes pueden no confiar el
uno en el otro? Comencemos con la parte fácil: la elección de la estructura de datos. Hay algunas propiedades deseables. 
El libro mayor debe ser inmutable o, para ser más precisos, solo anexar: debe poder agregar nuevas transacciones pero no eliminar, 
modificar ni reordenar las existentes. También debería haber una forma de obtener un compendio criptográfico sucinto del estado 
del libro en cualquier momento. Un resumen es una cadena corta que permite evitar almacenar todo el libro, sabiendo que si 
el libro mayor fuera manipulado de alguna manera, el resumen resultante cambiaría y, por lo tanto, se detectaría la alteración. 
El motivo de estas propiedades es que, a diferencia de una estructura de datos normal que se almacena en una sola máquina, 
el libro mayor es una estructura de datos global mantenida colectivamente por un conjunto de participantes mutuamente desconfiado.
Esto contrasta con otro enfoque para la descentralización de los libros digitales, 7,13,21 en el que muchos participantes mantienen 
libros contables locales y le corresponde al usuario consultar este conjunto de libros mayores para resolver cualquier conflicto.
Tiempos sellados vinculados
La estructura de datos del libro mayor de Bitcoin se toma prestada, con modificaciones mínimas, de una serie de documentos de
Stuart Haber y Scott Stornetta escritos entre 1990 y 1997 (su artículo de 1991 tenía otro coautor, Dave Bayer) .5,22,23 
Sabemos esto porque Nakamoto lo dice en su libro blanco de bitcoin.34 El trabajo de Haber y Stornetta abordó el problema 
del sellado del tiempo de los documentos: tenían como objetivo construir un servicio de "notario digital". Para patentes,
contratos comerciales y otros documentos, uno puede querer establecer que el documento fue creado en un momento determinado, 
y no más tarde. Su noción de documento es bastante general y podría ser cualquier tipo de datos. Mencionan, de paso, las transacciones
financieras como una posible aplicación, pero no era su foco.
En una versión simplificada de la propuesta de Haber y Stornetta, los documentos se crean y difunden constantemente.
El creador de cada
documento afirma el momento de la creación y firma el documento, su marca de tiempo y el documento emitido anteriormente
Merkle trees, por cierto, llevan el nombre de Ralph Merkle, un pionero de la criptografía asimétrica que propuso la idea en su 
artículo de 1980.33 Su intención era producir un resumen para un directorio público de certificados digitales. Cuando un sitio web,
por ejemplo, le presenta un certificado, también podría presentar una prueba corta de que el certificado aparece en el directorio
global. Puede verificar la prueba de manera eficiente siempre que conozca el hash de raíz del árbol Merkle de los certificados en 
el directorio. Esta idea es antigua según los estándares criptográficos, pero su poder se ha apreciado solo en los últimos tiempos. 
Está en el núcleo del sistema de transparencia de certificados recientemente implementado.30 Un documento de 2015 propone CONIKS, que
aplica la idea a directorios de claves públicas para correos electrónicos encriptados de extremo a extremo.32 La verificación eficiente
de partes del estado global es una de las funcionalidades clave proporcionadas por el libro mayor en Ethereum, una nueva criptomoneda.
Bitcoin puede ser la creación de instancias del mundo real más conocida de las estructuras de datos de Haber y Stornetta, pero no es 
la primera. Al menos dos compañías -seguros que comienzan a mediados de los 90 y Guardtime desde el año 2007- ofrecen servicios 
de sello de tiempo. Un giro interesante presente en ambos servicios es una idea mencionada por Bayer, Haber y Stornetta, 5 que consiste 
en publicar periódicamente las raíces de Merkle en un periódico mediante la publicación de un anuncio. La Figura 3 muestra una raíz de
Merkle publicada por Guardtime.
Tolerancia a fallas bizantina
Por supuesto, los requisitos para una moneda de Internet sin una autoridad central son más estrictos. Un ledger distribuido inevitablemente 
tendrá bifurcaciones, lo que significa que algunos nodos pensarán que el bloque A es el último bloque, mientras que otros nodos pensarán que 
es el bloque B. Esto podría deberse a que un adversario intente interrumpir la operación del libro o simplemente debido a la red latencia, 
lo que resulta en bloques ocasionalmente generados casi simultáneamente por diferentes nodos que desconocen los bloques de los demás.
El sellado de tiempo vinculado por sí solo no es suficiente para resolver los tenedores, como lo demostró Mike Just en 1998.26
Un campo de investigación diferente, la computación distribuida tolerante a fallas, ha estudiado este problema, donde recibe diferentes
nombres, incluida la replicación de estado. Una solución a este problema es aquella que permite que un conjunto de nodos aplique las
mismas transiciones de estado en el mismo orden; por lo general, el orden preciso no importa, solo que todos los nodos son consistentes.
Para una moneda digital, el estado que se replicará es el conjunto de saldos, y las transacciones son transiciones de estado. 
Las primeras soluciones, incluida Paxos, propuestas por Leslie Lamport, ganador del premio Turing en 1989,28,29, consideran 
la replicación del estado cuando los canales de comunicación no son confiables y cuando una minoría de nodos presenta ciertas fallas
"realistas", como desconectarse para siempre o reiniciar y enviar mensajes obsoletos desde la primera vez que se desconectó.
Una literatura prolífica siguió con ajustes más adversos y compensaciones de eficiencia.
Una línea de trabajo relacionada estudió la situación donde la red es en su mayoría confiable (los mensajes se entregan con retardo 
limitado), pero donde la definición de "falla" se amplió para manejar cualquier desviación del protocolo. Tales fallas bizantinas
incluyen tanto fallas naturales como comportamientos maliciosos. Primero fueron estudiados en un documento también por Lamport,
coescrito con Robert Shostak y Marshall Pease, ya en 1982.27 Mucho más tarde, en 1999, un documento histórico de Miguel Castro y
Barbara Liskov introdujo el PBFT (tolerancia a fallas bizantina práctica), que se adaptaba a ambos Fallas bizantinas y una red
no confiable.8 En comparación con el sellado de tiempo vinculado, la literatura de tolerancia a fallas es enorme e incluye cientos 
de variantes y optimizaciones de Paxos, PBFT y otros protocolos fundamentales.
En su libro blanco original, Nakamoto no cita esta literatura ni usa su lenguaje. Utiliza algunos conceptos, refiriéndose 
a su protocolo como un mecanismo de consenso y considerando fallas tanto en forma de atacantes como de nodos que se unen y
abandonan la red. Esto está en contraste con su dependencia explícita de la literatura en sellos de tiempo vinculados
(y prueba de trabajo, discutida a continuación). Cuando se le preguntó en una discusión de la lista de correo sobre
la relación de bitcoin con el problema de los generales bizantinos (un experimento de pensamiento que requiere BFT para resolver), 
Nakamoto afirma que la cadena de prueba de trabajo resuelve este problema.
En los años siguientes, otros académicos han estudiado el consenso de Nakamoto desde la perspectiva de los sistemas distribuidos.

This is still a work in progress. Some show that bitcoin's properties are quite weak,43 while others argue that the BFT perspective 
doesn't do justice to bitcoin's consistency properties.40 Another approach is to define variants of well-studied properties and prove 
that bitcoin satisfies them.19 Recently these definitions were substantially sharpened to provide a more standard consistency definition
that holds under more realistic assumptions about message delivery.37 All of this work, however, makes assumptions about "honest,
" i.e., procotol-compliant, behavior among a subset of participants, whereas Nakamoto suggests that honest behavior need not be 
blindly assumed, because it is incentivized. A richer analysis of Nakamoto consensus accounting for the role of incentives doesn't
fit cleanly into past models of fault-tolerant systems.
Proof of Work
Virtually all fault-tolerant systems assume that a strict majority or supermajority (e.g., more than half or two-thirds) of nodes
in the system are both honest and reliable. In an open peer-to-peer network, there is no registration of nodes, and they freely join
and leave. Thus an adversary can create enough Sybils, or sockpuppet nodes, to overcome the consensus guarantees of the system. 
The Sybil attack was formalized in 2002 by John Douceur,14 who turned to a cryptographic construction called proof of work to
mitigate it.
The origins
To understand proof of work, let's turn to its origins. The first proposal that would be called proof of work today was created in 1992 by Cynthia Dwork and Moni Naor.15 Their goal was to deter spam. Note that spam, Sybil attacks, and denial of service are all roughly similar problems in which the adversary amplifies its influence in the network compared to regular users; proof of work is applicable as a defense against all three. In Dwork and Naor's design, email recipients would process only those emails that were accompanied by proof that the sender had performed a moderate amount of computational work—hence, "proof of work." Computing the proof would take perhaps a few seconds on a regular computer. Thus, it would pose no difficulty for regular users, but a spammer wishing to send a million emails would require several weeks, using equivalent hardware. 
Note that the proof-of-work instance (also called a puzzle) has to be specific to the email, as well as to the recipient. Otherwise, a spammer would be able to send multiple messages to the same recipient (or the same message to multiple recipients) for the cost of one message to one recipient. The second crucial property is that it should pose minimal computational burden on the recipient; puzzle solutions should be trivial to verify, regardless of how hard they are to compute. Additionally, Dwork and Naor considered functions with a trapdoor, a secret known to a central authority that would allow the authority to solve the puzzles without doing the work. One possible application of a trapdoor would be for the authority to approve posting to mailing lists without incurring a cost. Dwork and Naor's proposal consisted of three candidate puzzles meeting their properties, 
and it kicked off a whole research field, to which we'll return. 
Hashcash
A very similar idea called hashcash was independently invented in 1997 by Adam Back, a postdoctoral researcher at the time who was part of the cypherpunk community. Cypherpunks were activists who opposed the power of governments and centralized institutions, and sought to create social and political change through cryptography. Back was practically oriented: he released hashcash first as software,2 and five years later in 2002 released an Internet draft (a standardization document) and a paper.4 
Hashcash is much simpler than Dwork and Naor's idea: it has no trapdoor and no central authority, and it uses only hash functions instead of digital signatures. It is based on a simple principle: a hash function behaves as a random function for some practical purposes, which means that the only way to find an input that hashes to a particular output is to try various inputs until one produces the desired output. Further, the only way to find an input that hashes into an arbitrary set of outputs is again to try hashing different inputs one by one. So, if I challenged you to find an input whose (binary) hash value begins with 10 zeros, you would have to try numerous inputs, and you would find that each output had a 1/210 chance of beginning with 10 zeros, which means that you would have to try on the order of 210 inputs, or approximately 1,000 hash computations. 
As the name suggests, in hashcash Back viewed proof of work as a form of cash. On his web page he positioned it as an alternative to David Chaum's DigiCash, which was a system that issued untraceable digital cash from a bank to a user.3 He even made compromises to the technical design to make it appear more cashlike. Later, Back made comments suggesting that bitcoin was a straightforward extension of hashcash. Hashcash is simply not cash, however, because it has no protection against double spending. Hashcash tokens cannot be exchanged among peers. 
Meanwhile, in the academic scene, researchers found many applications for proof of work besides spam, such as preventing denial-of-service attacks,25 ensuring the integrity of web analytics,17 and rate-limiting password guessing online.38 Incidentally, the term proof of work was coined only in 1999 in a paper by Markus Jakobsson and Ari Juels, which also includes a nice survey of the work up until that point.24 It is worth noting that these researchers seem to have been unaware of hashcash but independently started to converge on hash-based proof of work, which was introduced in papers by Eran Gabber et al.18 and by Juels and Brainard.25 (Many of the terms used throughout this paragraph didn't become standard terminology until long after the papers in question were published.)
Proof of work and digital cash: A catch-22
You may know that proof of work did not succeed in its original application as an anti-spam measure. One possible reason is the dramatic difference in the puzzle-solving speed of different devices. That means spammers will be able to make a small investment in custom hardware to increase their spam rate by orders of magnitude. In economics, the natural response to an asymmetry in the cost of production is trade—that is, a market for proof-of-work solutions. But this presents a catch-22, because that would require a working digital currency. Indeed, the lack of such a currency is a major part of the motivation for proof of work in the first place. One crude solution to this problem is to declare puzzle solutions to be cash, as hashcash tries to do.
More coherent approaches to treating puzzle solutions as cash are found in two essays that preceded bitcoin, describing ideas called b-money13 and bit gold42 respectively. These proposals offer timestamping services that sign off on the creation (through proof of work) of money, and once money is created, they sign off on transfers. If disagreement about the ledger occurs among the servers or nodes, however, there isn't a clear way to resolve it. Letting the majority decide seems to be implicit in both authors' writings, but because of the Sybil problem, these mechanisms aren't very secure, unless there is a gatekeeper who controls entry into the network or Sybil resistance is itself achieved with proof of work. 
Putting it all together 
Understanding all these predecessors that contain pieces of bitcoin's design leads to an appreciation of the true genius of Nakamoto's innovation. In bitcoin, for the first time, puzzle solutions don't constitute cash by themselves. Instead, they are merely used to secure the ledger. Solving proof of work is performed by specialized entities called miners (although Nakamoto underestimated just how specialized mining would become). 
Miners are constantly in a race with each other to find the next puzzle solution; each miner solves a slightly different variant of the puzzle so that the chance of success is proportional to the fraction of global mining power that the miner controls. A miner who solves a puzzle gets to contribute the next batch, or block, of transactions to the ledger, which is based on linked timestamping. In exchange for the service of maintaining the ledger, a miner who contributes a block is rewarded with newly minted units of the currency. With high likelihood, if a miner contributes an invalid transaction or block, it will be rejected by the majority of other miners who contribute the following blocks, and this will also invalidate the block reward for the bad block. In this way, because of the monetary incentives, miners ensure each other's compliance with the protocol.
Bitcoin neatly avoids the double-spending problem plaguing proof-of-work-as-cash schemes because it eschews puzzle solutions themselves having value. In fact, puzzle solutions are twice decoupled from economic value: the amount of work required to produce a block is a floating parameter (proportional to the global mining power), and further, the number of bitcoins issued per block is not fixed either. The block reward (which is how new bitcoins are minted) is set to halve every four years (in 2017, the reward is 12.5 bitcoins/block, down from 50 bitcoins/block). Bitcoin incorporates an additional reward scheme—namely, senders of transactions paying miners for the service of including the transaction in their blocks. It is expected that the market will determine transaction fees and miners' rewards.
Nakamoto's genius, then, wasn't any of the individual components of bitcoin, but rather the intricate way in which they fit together to breathe life into the system. The timestamping and Byzantine agreement researchers didn't hit upon the idea of incentivizing nodes to be honest, nor, until 2005, of using proof of work to do away with identities. Conversely, the authors of hashcash, b-money, and bit gold didn't incorporate the idea of a consensus algorithm to prevent double spending. In bitcoin, a secure ledger is necessary to prevent double spending and thus ensure that the currency has value. A valuable currency is necessary to reward miners. In turn, strength of mining power is necessary to secure the ledger. Without it, an adversary could amass more than 50 percent of the global mining power and thereby be able to generate blocks faster than the rest of 
the network, double-spend transactions, and effectively rewrite history, overrunning the system. Thus, bitcoin is bootstrapped, with a circular dependence among these three components. Nakamoto's challenge was not just the design, but also convincing the initial community of users and miners to take a leap together into the unknown—back when a pizza cost 10,000 bitcoins and the network's mining power was less than a trillionth of what it is today.
Public keys as identities
This article began with the understanding that a secure ledger makes creating digital currency straightforward. Let's revisit this claim. When Alice wishes to pay Bob, she broadcasts the transaction to all bitcoin nodes. A transaction is simply a string: a statement encoding Alice's wish to pay Bob some value, signed by her. The eventual inclusion of this signed statement into the ledger by miners is what makes the transaction real. Note that this doesn't require Bob's participation in any way. But let's focus on what's not in the transaction: conspicuously absent are Alice and Bob's identities; instead, the transaction contains only their respective public keys. This is an important concept in bitcoin: public keys are the only kinds of identities in the system. Transactions transfer value from and to public keys, which are called addresses.
In order to "speak for" an identity, you must know the corresponding secret key. You can create a new identity at any time by generating a new key pair, with no central authority or registry. You don't need to obtain a user name or inform others that you have picked a particular name. This is the notion of decentralized identity management. Bitcoin doesn't specify how Alice tells Bob what her pseudonym is—that is external to the system. 
Although radically different from most other payment systems today, these ideas are quite old, dating back to David Chaum, the father of digital cash. In fact, Chaum also made seminal contributions to anonymity networks, and it is in this context that he invented this idea. In his 1981 paper, "Untraceable Electronic Mail, Return Addresses, and Digital Pseudonyms,"9 he states: "A digital pseudonym' is a public key used to verify signatures made by the anonymous holder of the corresponding private key." 
Now, having message recipients be known only by a public key presents an obvious problem: there is no way to route the message to the right computer. This leads to a massive inefficiency in Chaum's proposal, which can be traded off against the level of anonymity but not eliminated. Bitcoin is similarly exceedingly inefficient compared with centralized payment systems: the ledger containing every transaction is maintained by every node in the system. Bitcoin incurs this inefficiency for security reasons anyway, and thus achieves pseudonymity (i.e, public keys as identities) "for free." Chaum took these ideas much further in a 1985 paper,11 where he presents a vision of privacy-preserving e-commerce based on pervasive pseudonyms, as well as "blind signatures," the key technical idea behind his digital cash.
The public-keys-as-identities idea is also seen in b-money and bit gold, the two precursor essays to bitcoin discussed earlier. However, much of the work that built on Chaum's foundation, as well as Chaum's own later work on ecash, moved away from this idea. The cypherpunks were keenly interested in privacy-preserving communication and commerce, and they embraced pseudonyms, which they called nyms. But to them, nyms weren't mere cryptographic identities (i.e., public keys), but rather, usually email addresses that were linked to public keys. Similarly, Ian Goldberg's dissertation, which became the basis of much future work on anonymous communication, recognizes Chaum's idea but suggests that nyms should be human-memorable nicknames with certificates to bind them.20 Thus Bitcoin proved to be the most successful instantiation of Chaum's idea.
The Blockchain
So far, this article has not addressed the blockchain, which, if you believe the hype, is bitcoin's main invention. It might come as a surprise to you that Nakamoto doesn't mention that term at all. In fact, the term blockchain has no standard technical definition but is a loose umbrella term used by various parties to refer to systems that bear varying levels of resemblance to bitcoin and its ledger. 
Discussing example applications that benefit from a blockchain will help clarify the different uses of the term. First, consider a database backend for transactions among a consortium of banks, where transactions are netted at the end of each day and accounts are settled by the central bank. Such a system has a small number of well-identified parties, so Nakamoto consensus would be overkill. An on-blockchain currency is not needed either, as the accounts are denominated in traditional currency. Linked timestamping, on the other hand, would clearly be useful, at least to ensure a consistent global ordering of transactions in the face of network latency. State replication would also be useful: a bank would know that its local copy of the data is identical to what the central bank will use to settle its account. This frees banks from the expensive
reconciliation process they must currently perform. 
Second, consider an asset-management application such as a registry of documents that tracks ownership of financial securities, or real estate, or any other asset. Using a blockchain would increase interoperability and decrease barriers to entry. We want a secure, global registry of documents, and ideally one that allows public participation. This is essentially what the timestamping services of the 1990s and 2000s sought to provide. Public blockchains offer a particularly effective way to achieve this today (the data itself may be stored off-chain, with only the metadata stored on-chain). Other applications also benefit from a timestamping or "public bulletin board" abstraction, most notably electronic voting.
Let's build on the asset-management example. Suppose you want to execute trades of assets via the blockchain, and not merely record them there. This is possible if the asset is issued digitally on the blockchain itself, and if the blockchain supports smart contracts. In this instance, smart contracts solve the "fair exchange" problem of ensuring that payment is made if and only if the asset is transferred. More generally, smart contracts can encode complex business logic, provided that all necessary input data (assets, their prices, and so on) are represented on the blockchain.
This mapping of blockchain properties to applications allows us not only to appreciate their potential, but also to inject a much-needed dose of skepticism. First, many proposed applications of blockchains, especially in banking, don't use Nakamoto consensus. Rather, they use the ledger data structure and Byzantine agreement, which, as shown, date to the '90s. This belies the claim that blockchains are a new and revolutionary technology. Instead, the buzz around blockchains has helped banks initiate collective action to deploy shared-ledger technology, like the parable of "stone soup." Bitcoin has also served as a highly visible proof of concept that the decentralized ledger works, and the Bitcoin Core project has provided a convenient code base that can be adapted as necessary.
Second, blockchains are frequently presented as more secure than traditional registries—a misleading claim. To see why, the overall stability of the system or platform must be separated from endpoint security—that is, the security of users and devices. True, the systemic risk of blockchains may be lower than that of many centralized institutions, but the endpoint-security risk of blockchains is far worse than the corresponding risk of traditional institutions. Blockchain transactions are near-instant, irreversible, and, in public blockchains, anonymous by design. With a blockchain-based stock registry, if a user (or broker or agent) loses control of his or her private keys—which takes nothing more than losing a phone or getting malware on a computer—the user loses his or her assets.
The extraordinary history of bitcoin hacks, thefts, and scams doesn't inspire much confidence—according to one estimate, at least six percent of bitcoins in circulation have been stolen at least once.39
Concluding Lessons
The history described here offers rich (and complementary) lessons for practitioners and academics. Practitioners should be skeptical of claims of revolutionary technology. As shown here, most of the ideas in bitcoin that have generated excitement in the enterprise, such as distributed ledgers and Byzantine agreement, actually date back 20 years or more. Recognize that your problem may not require any breakthroughs—there may be long-forgotten solutions in research papers. 
Academia seems to have the opposite problem, at least in this instance: a resistance to radical, extrinsic ideas. The bitcoin white paper, despite the pedigree of many of its ideas, was more novel than most academic research. Moreover, Nakamoto didn't care for academic peer review and didn't fully connect it to its history. As a result, academics essentially ignored bitcoin for several years. Many academic communities informally argued that Bitcoin couldn't work, based on theoretical models or experiences with past systems, despite the fact that it was working in practice. 
We've seen repeatedly that ideas in the research literature can be gradually forgotten or lie unappreciated, especially if they are ahead of their time, even in popular areas of research. Both practitioners and academics would do well to revisit old ideas to glean insights for present systems. Bitcoin was unusual and successful not because it was on the cutting edge of research on any of its components, but because it combined old ideas from many previously unrelated fields. This is not easy to do, as it requires bridging disparate terminology, assumptions, etc., but it is a valuable blueprint for innovation.
Practitioners would benefit from being able to identify overhyped technology. Some indicators of hype: difficulty identifying the technical innovation; difficulty pinning down the meaning of supposedly technical terms, because of companies eager to attach their own products to the bandwagon; difficulty identifying the problem that is being solved; and finally, claims of technology solving social problems or creating economic/political upheaval.
In contrast, academia has difficulty selling its inventions. For example, it's unfortunate that the original proof-of-work researchers get no credit for bitcoin, possibly because the work wasn't well known outside academic circles. Activities such as releasing code and working with practitioners are not adequately rewarded in academia. In fact, the original branch of the academic proof-of-work literature continues today without acknowledging the existence of bitcoin! Engaging with the real world not only helps get credit, but will also reduce reinvention and is a source of fresh ideas.
Sidebars
Sybil-resistant networks
In his paper on Sybil attacks, John Douceur proposed that all nodes participating in a BFT protocol be required to solve hashcash puzzles. If a node were masquerading as N nodes, it would be unable to solve N puzzles in time, and the fake identities would be purged. A malicious node, however, could still obtain a moderate advantage over an honest node that claimed only a single identity. A follow-up paper in 20051 suggested that honest nodes should instead mimic the behavior of malicious nodes and claim as many virtual identities as they computationally can afford to claim. With these virtual identities executing a BFT protocol, the assumption, "At most a fraction f of nodes are faulty" can be replaced with the assumption "The fraction of total computational power controlled by faulty nodes is at most f." Thus, it is no longer necessary to validate identities,
and open peer-to-peer networks can run a BFT protocol. Bitcoin uses exactly this idea. But Nakamoto asks a further question: What motivates nodes to perform computationally expensive proof of work? The answer requires a further leap: digital currency.
Smart contracts
A smart contract takes the idea of putting data in a secure ledger and extends it to computation. In other words, it is a consensus protocol for the correct execution of a publicly specified program. Users can invoke functions in these smart-contract programs, subject to any restrictions specified by the program, and the function code is executed in tandem by the miners. Users can trust the output without having to redo the computation and can write their own programs to act on the output of other programs. Smart contracts are especially powerful when combined with a cryptocurrency platform, because the programs in question can handle money—own it, transfer it, destroy it, and, in some cases, even print it. 
Bitcoin implements a restrictive programming language for smart contracts. A "standard" transaction (i.e., one that moves currency from one address to another) is specified as a short script in this language. Ethereum offers a more permissive and powerful language. 
The idea of smart contracts was proposed by Nick Szabo in 199441 and so named because he saw them as analogs of legal contracts, but with automated enforcement. (This view has been critiqued by Karen Levy31 and Ed Felten.16) Presciently, Szabo presented smart contracts as extensions of digital-cash protocols and recognized that Byzantine agreement and digital signatures (among others) could be used as building blocks. The success of cryptocurrencies has made smart contracts practical, and research on the topic has bloomed as well. For example, programming languages researchers have adapted their methods and tools to automatically discover bugs in smart contracts and to write verifiably correct ones.
Permissioned blockchains 
While this article has emphasized that private or permissioned blockchains omit most of bitcoin's innovations, this isn't meant to diminish the interesting work happening in this space. A permissioned blockchain places restrictions on who can join the network, write transactions, or mine blocks. In particular, if miners are restricted to a list of trustworthy participants, the proof of work can be dropped in favor of a more traditional BFT approach. Thus, much of the research is a rebirth of BFT that asks questions such as: Can we use hash trees to simplify consensus algorithms? What if the network can fail only in certain ways? 
Further, there are important considerations around identity and public-key infrastructure, access control, and confidentiality of the data stored on the blockchain. These issues largely don't arise in public blockchain settings, nor are they studied in the traditional BFT literature. 
Finally, there is also the engineering work of scaling blockchains for high throughput and adapting them to various applications such as supply-chain management and financial technology. 



